Wake Up
=======

*Young Buddhists and non-Buddhists for a Healthy and Compassionate Society*

Nutshell
--------

Wake Up is definitely an active global community of young mindfulness
practitioners, **aged 18-35**, inspired by the teachings of Zen Master and peace
activist Thich Nhat Hanh. We come together to practice mindfulness in order to
take care of ourselves, nourish happiness and contribute to building a healthier
and a more compassionate society.

*We want to help our world which is overloaded with intolerance, discrimination,
craving, anger and despair. Seeing the environmental degradation caused by our
society, we want to live in such a way that our planet Earth can survive for a
long time. Practicing mindfulness, concentration and insight, enables us to
cultivate tolerance, non-discrimination, understanding and compassion in
ourselves and the world.*

Practice: essence
-----------------

We follow the Five Mindfulness Trainings, which are ethical guidelines that
offer concrete practices of true love and compassion, and a path towards a life
in harmony with each other and the Earth. These guidelines are the foundation of
our lives and represent our ideal of service. Our practice is based on
cultivating awareness of the breath and living deeply in the present moment,
aware of what is happening within us and around us. This practice helps us to
release the tension in our bodies and feelings, to live life deeply and more
happily, and to use compassionate listening and loving speech to help restore
communication and reconcile with others.

Roots/inclusiveness
-------------------

The Wake Up movement is inspired by Buddhism's long tradition of wisdom and
practices which help cultivate understanding and love; it is not based on
beliefs or ideology. The spirit of our practice is close to the spirit of
science; both help us cultivate an open and non-discriminating mind. We honor
everyone's diverse spiritual and cultural roots. You can join as a Christian, a
Jew, a Muslim, as an agnostic or atheist, or member of any other spiritual or
religious tradition.

What we do
----------

We aspire to be a place of refuge, nourishment and support for anyone with an
aspiration to transform their own suffering and contribute to a healthy and
compassionate society. We gather weekly or monthly in Wake Up groups to practice
sitting and walking meditation, to listen to a teaching, practice total
relaxation, listen deeply to one another, and recite the Five Mindfulness
Trainings. We also organize mindfulness events and retreats, and visit
meditation practice centers together to refresh ourselves and strengthen our
practice. Many groups also organize music evenings, meditation flashmobs,
picnics, hikes and other special events or actions.

You can do it
-------------

If you are a young person inspired to cultivate mindfulness and compassion in
your life, we invite you to join the Wake Up movement in your country. Wake Up
offers a way to pool our energy and act collectively, to create the world we
want to live in! Anyone can get together and form a Wake Up group wherever they
are. Please let us know what you are planning to do and what you are trying to
achieve. We will do our best to support you.
